Add isBuildArtifact field to Artifacts (#8103)
tektoncd/pipeline: docs/artifacts.md

It is recommended to use [purl format](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst) for artifacts uri as shown in the example. 

> ### Output Artifacts in SLSA Provenance
> By default, Tekton Chains will consider all output artifacts as `byProducts` when generating in the [SLSA provenance](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/provenance). In order to treat an artifact as a [subject](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/provenance#schema) of the build, you must set a boolean field `"buildOutput": true` for the output artifact.
> 
> e.g.  
> ```yaml
> apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
> kind: TaskRun
> metadata:
>   generateName: step-artifacts-
> spec:
>   taskSpec:
>     description: |
>       A simple task that populates artifacts to TaskRun stepState
>     steps:
>       - name: artifacts-producer
>         image: bash:latest
>         script: |
>           cat > $(artifacts.path) << EOF
>           {
>             "outputs":[
>               {
>                 "name":"image",
>                 "buildOutput": true,
>                 "values":[
>                   {
>                     "uri":"pkg:oci/nginx:stable-alpine3.17-slim?repository_url=docker.io/library",
>                     "digest":{
>                       "sha256":"df85b9e3983fe2ce20ef76ad675ecf435cc99fc9350adc54fa230bae8c32ce48",
>                       "sha1":"95588b8f34c31eb7d62c92aaa4e6506639b06ef2"
>                     }
>                   }
>                 ]
>               }
>             ]
>           }
>           EOF
> ```
> This informs Tekton Chains your desire to handle the artifact.
> 
> When authoring a `StepAction` or a `Task`, you can even parametrize this field and let the user of the `StepAction`/`Task` indicate their desire.This is because there are generally two categories:
> 1. "build" artifacts - packages, images etc.
> 2. "non-build"/incidental artifacts - logs, caches, etc.
> Depending on what the user of the `Task/StepAction` is uploading, they can indicate their choice.
> 

Reviewer: Tweaked some of the copy.

```suggestion
### Output Artifacts in SLSA Provenance

Artifacts are classified as either:

- Build Outputs - packages, images, etc. that are being published by the build.
- Build Byproducts - logs, caches, etc. that are incidental artifacts that are produced by the build.

By default, Tekton Chains will consider all output artifacts as `byProducts` when generating in the [SLSA provenance](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/provenance). In order to treat an artifact as a [subject](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/provenance#schema) of the build, you must set a boolean field `"buildOutput": true` for the output artifact.

e.g.  
```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: TaskRun
metadata:
  generateName: step-artifacts-
spec:
  taskSpec:
    description: |
      A simple task that populates artifacts to TaskRun stepState
    steps:
      - name: artifacts-producer
        image: bash:latest
        script: |
          cat > $(artifacts.path) << EOF
          {
            "outputs":[
              {
                "name":"image",
                "buildOutput": true,
                "values":[
                  {
                    "uri":"pkg:oci/nginx:stable-alpine3.17-slim?repository_url=docker.io/library",
                    "digest":{
                      "sha256":"df85b9e3983fe2ce20ef76ad675ecf435cc99fc9350adc54fa230bae8c32ce48",
                      "sha1":"95588b8f34c31eb7d62c92aaa4e6506639b06ef2"
                    }
                  }
                ]
              }
            ]
          }
          EOF
```

This informs Tekton Chains your desire to handle the artifact.

> [!TIP] 
> When authoring a `StepAction` or a `Task`, you can parametrize this field to allow users to indicate their desire depending on what they are uploading - this can be useful for actions that may produce either a build output or a byproduct depending on the context!
```

It is recommended to use [purl format](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst) for artifacts uri as shown in the example. 

### Output Artifacts in SLSA Provenance
By default, Tekton Chains will consider all output artifacts as `byProducts` when generating in the [SLSA provenance](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/provenance). In order to treat an artifact as a [subject](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/provenance#schema) of the build, you must set a boolean field `"isBuildArtifact": true` for the output artifact.

e.g.  
```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: TaskRun
metadata:
  generateName: step-artifacts-
spec:
  taskSpec:
    description: |
      A simple task that populates artifacts to TaskRun stepState
    steps:
      - name: artifacts-producer
        image: bash:latest
        script: |
          cat > $(artifacts.path) << EOF
          {
            "outputs":[
              {
                "name":"image",

>                 "isBuildArtifact": true,

Reviewer: I'm worried that "build artifact" isn't specific enough, since users run builds in tasks/pipelines, so any artifact could be referred to as a build artifact.

`buildOutput` is slightly better here to be in line with SLSA terminology of outputs vs byproducts and at least makes a better distinction when talking about different artifact types - e.g. it's weird to say "this artifact isn't a build artifact it's a byproduct" without knowing the context that not all artifacts produced by builds are build artifacts, whereas "this artifact isn't a build output it's a byproduct" feels like it would be less confusing?
There are still similar overlaps with outputs.buildOutput, but this might be the least-worst option? 

Also open to other ideas here! (naming is hard 😅)

Author: Thats ok. I'm happy to adopt that.

Author: Done!

>                 "isBuildArtifact": true,

Reviewer: nit: I'd drop the `is` - I don't know if this adds anything, and sometimes autogenerated clients (particularly if you ever deal with protobuf) will add prefixes that leads to clunky method names like `hasIsBuildArtifact`/`getIsBuildArtifact`

```suggestion
                "buildArtifact": true,
```

Author: Agreed! Much better. I'll use `BuildOutput` instead like you suggested above.

                "values":[
                  {
                    "uri":"pkg:oci/nginx:stable-alpine3.17-slim?repository_url=docker.io/library",
                    "digest":{
                      "sha256":"df85b9e3983fe2ce20ef76ad675ecf435cc99fc9350adc54fa230bae8c32ce48",
                      "sha1":"95588b8f34c31eb7d62c92aaa4e6506639b06ef2"
                    }
                  }
                ]
              }
            ]
          }
          EOF
```
This informs Tekton Chains your desire to handle the artifact.

> When authoring a `StepAction` or a `Task`, you can even parametrize this field and let the user of the `StepAction`/`Task` indicate their desire. Generally, things like "gcs-upload" might want to set this value by default to `false`, however, a `StepAction/Task` like "kaniko" (since it is uploading images to container registries, which are normally build products) might want to set the default to `true`. 

Reviewer: I'd avoid the gcs-upload example here (or at least add more context) since there are often times where you would want this to produce a build output (e.g. tekton release yamls).

I'd classify this into 2 categories: 

1. "important" artifacts - packages, images, etc
2. "unimportant"/incidental artifacts - logs, caches, etc

Author: Thanks! I'll use `"build"` and `"non-build"` instead of `important and unimportant` since importance is relative :)

e.g.

```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: artifact-producer
spec:
  params:
    - name: isBuildArtifact
      default: true
  steps:
    image: bash:latest
    script: |
      cat > $(artifacts.path) << EOF
      {
        "outputs":[
          {
            "name":"image",
            "isBuildArtifact": $(params.isBuildArtifact),
            "values":[
              {
                "uri":"pkg:oci/nginx:stable-alpine3.17-slim?repository_url=docker.io/library",
                "digest":{
                  "sha256":"df85b9e3983fe2ce20ef76ad675ecf435cc99fc9350adc54fa230bae8c32ce48",
                  "sha1":"95588b8f34c31eb7d62c92aaa4e6506639b06ef2"
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
      EOF

> ```

Reviewer: I'd remove this - this is largely the same of the example above and doesn't add much.
